Additional Notes Following Lecture:
Thank you for attending lecture today and for participating the the experimental way the course has been delivered so far. 

I still need you to start early and plan for at least 10 hours a week of work outside of class but I'm hopeful that the realignment will avoid the 20+ hours per week I know some of you have been putting into this course. Also, your daily and weekly status reports remain very important to me.


The major topic of lecture today was around understanding the management challenge we experienced as a class and come to an understanding of the way forward through the project.

I started with the goals we'd talked about as a class on the first day. I think we are being successful on meeting the goals we set out to achieve.

The challenge of trying to apply management and project practices that work with teams of 8-12 full-time developers with a full-time manager to the classroom setting didn't work as well as we had planned/thought initially. I'm glad we conducted the experiment and I really appreciate the effort you all put in support the attempt. Going forward, the class will be using a more traditional approach to lectures and assignments.

The original SDLC model used for the course ended up being a challenge. The architecture and scope of the project was too ambitious and working on the decomposed chunks did not provide sufficient context for the work. Some additional confounding factors that delayed detection of a bad project model fit were late starts (making it hard to know if the problem was due to last minute issues), the spread of student abilities (students the beginning of the program vs the end of the program) and the herculean effort some students were putting into the assignments (demonstrating good completion without visibility into the excessive effort required).

For the remainder of the course, we will be using an iterative strategy. This should provide much greater context for the assignments as we move forward and a better sense of visible progress through the project. We will be completing one iteration per week and the assignment format will more closely resemble the assignments from other courses. Grading will progress in the order of the steps in the assignment until a step fails.

I still need you to engage with the assignments early and provide feedback on progress and challenges. Engaging early also puts us in a much better position to talk about design issues during lecture since we will all be familiar with what we are trying to implement that week.

The core problem LOST is trying to solve will be the same:
OSNAP has a problem managing its assets and needs a system to solve that problem. This can be distilled into the following three asks from the business:
- Need a single system to enumerate assets
- Need to enforce a process for tracking  asset motion
- Need access control on who can make changes

As a class, we identified the following major parts/things that a solution would have or would look like:
- Shared DB
- Some service API calls/exposed interfaces:
    User management
    Asset management
    ...
- Reliable/repeatable deployment process
- Users and roles management

- User interface
    Login screen
    Dashboard screen (different for different roles)
    Report screens

We also identified some risks that the business will need to address before we get too far into the project:
- Clarification of how we model assets
- Clarification of process to be enforced by the system (who/what/how)

After discussing what a solution might look like, we went over the outline of the work to be done for each of the iterations and talked through questions about what was intended for each iteration. We didn't map from the iterations back to the solution parts we listed... but that would be a great exercise. Another great exercise would be mapping from the solution parts back to the three asks our system is intended to address.


We talked a bit about the mid-term questions and expectations. I hope to post some sample answers by the weekend but am really slammed with some other work (including writing the actual midterm questions).


The last part of lecture was open discussion/questions. 

We talked a little bit about the role of json for the webservice calls (we need a way to turn python dictionaries into text so that they can be sent over HTTP).

We talked about the change to the assignment 5 requirements. Stubbed out API calls that return json in the correct format are full credit solutions. Implementing the database logic will earn extra credit. Encryption, while it would be cool, will not result in additional points awarded.

It seems like there were some other threads of discussion but they have escaped my recollection.