Additional Notes Following Lecture:
Thank you for your lecture attendance today. Sorry I was short on prep time today.

----- Web Services -----
Web services solve a problem that comes up due to complexities of parsing HTML directly... I'd hoped to have a set of examples for lecture today but was too short on time. Perhaps I'll have this ready by Thursday.

In short, screen scraping (e.g. trying to programmatically parse information of HTML documents) is really hard and error prone. If the HTML document changes, that usually causes significant problems for the code doing the parsing. It is much better for a program to use an API to access the data rather than parse HTML. Web services provide that kind of publicly available API.


----- Mid-term -----
The mid-term is expected to occur next Tuesday (2/14). A practice mid-term has been posted on the course website. I like to imagine that the material on the mid-term aligns with practices you are already doing. If reality is very different, I need to know soon so that there is some time to try to correct.


----- Discussion -----
Thank you for coming and with and asking questions on assignment 5. I'm hopeful that this early engagement will help to make assignment 5 go more smoothly than the previous assignments.

We did some problem decomposition an risk analysis... 
What are the technologies for the project (known and fairly low risk)? 
Flask
SQL

What are the things we don't know but know enough to ask about (known unknowns and fairly high risk)?
How do we interact with the web service?
How do we test the web service?
How do we do the encryption?

What are the functionalities we need?
JSON parsing and generation
Encryption support
Enumerated set of REST calls/URLs


Setting up the plan - 
The known unknowns are the highest risk and go first in the project plan. Ask, ask, ask, until useful insight comes back. Turn around time can take a while which is also a good reason to put clarifying questions early in the timeline. Questions are observable deliverables.

While waiting on answers, there are other delivery activities that can be done. The pressure on the questions aligns with the how far away the activity needing the answer is. Together, we produced a plan for assignment 5 that had ordered steps like the following:

1 - Clarification questions
2 - Stub out the web service URLs
3 - Implement each web service URL in plaintext
3.5 - Test the web services
4 - Add the encryption to the plaintext
4.5 - Test the web services

...FYI, this is pretty much the Risk Management question on the mid-term... Identify the technology risks and break the problem into an ordered set of incremental subproblems. Provide some insight into why the problem/risks were assessed/ordered this way.